# 1007-Asssigment-2
# Question 1: (10 marks)
Write a C program, q1.c,to takes a list of command line arguments, each of which is the full path of a command (such as /bin/ls, /bin/ps, /bin/date, /bin/who, /bin/uname etc). Assume the number of such commands is N. Your program would create N direct child processes. The parent of these child processes is your program. Each child executing one of the N commands. You should make sure that these N commands are executed concurrently, not sequentially one after the other. The parent process should be waiting for each child process to terminate. When a child process terminates, the parent process should print one line on the standard output stating that the relevant command has completed successfully or not successfully (such as "Command /bin/who has completed successfully", or "Command /bin/who has not completed successfully"). Once all the children processes have terminated, the parent process should print "All done, bye!" before it itself terminates. Note: Do not use function system in this question. You can use the different types of execl function.

# Question 2: (10 marks)
Write a C program, q2.c, likes the standard Unix utility ls -1 but with much less functionality. Specifically, it takes a list of command line arguments, treating each command line argument as a file name. It then reports the following information for each file: User and Group names of the user and group owners, the type of file, full access permissions (reported in the format used by the ls program), the size of the file, i-node number, the device number of the device in which the file is stored, the number of links, last access, modification and file status changes time (converted to the format used by the ls program). Like ls -1 command, if no command line argument is provided, the program simply reports the stated information about the files in the current directory. Your program cannot use /bin/ls program, /usr/bin/stat program, or any other program to implement the program for this question.

# Question 3: (10 marks)
Write a C program, q3.c, to implement a simple shell accepting only 4 commands. The first is the copy command cp (i.e. cp file1 file2) to copy all the content from file1 to file2. The second is a command to show the current directory (pwd). The third command is the I/O redirection command (pwd > foo). The final is the exit command to quite the shell.

# Question 4: (20 marks)
Semaphore is a type of inter-process communication mechanism used to facilitate process synchronisation. Write a C program, q4.c, to illustrate the 3 synchronisation problems (Deadlock, Starvation, and Race condition). You can put all in a single c file or 3 c files (e.g. q4deadlock.c, q4starvation.c, q4race.c). Your code needs to clearly demonstrate the respective problems. The quality of your solution will base on the complexity of the scenario. The scenario requires minimal 5 processes and 3 resources (files). Discuss 1 solution for each problem. Present the code of your solution with the individual problem if possible. Clearly document the problem scenarios and the solution with a detail discussion.
